24 Days in December	

Community got me to where I am today.

Once upon a time, I was called a hobbit at a conference.

Since then, it’s been a whirlwind of ups and downs. But lets go back to the beginning and see how the community helped me get to where I am, and what it can hopefully do for you. I will skip briefly to the ending, not so much a TL;DR but more of a “wow” factor. It’s to hopefully drive the point of my story home quickly. The point is this: if I ever get married, the attendance list will look like a damn PHP conference.

I started programming at the age of 26. Maybe kind of a lie, I did some stuff on MySpace but nothing crazy. I had one of those cool music pages. I read a post on Reddit about being able to work from home, make bank and I didn’t need a college degree. A google search lead me to Codecademy which in turn lead me to Treehouse. I did their HTML, CSS and JS tracks (tracks back then weren’t what they are today). Immediately following the JS track, the very next video started down PHP so we could build a cart. PHP was something I had never heard of. My mother at one point thought it was PCP, a hallucinogenic. I quickly learned the power of the include, require, dynamic date values and thought I was cool. Who knew the cool shit I would learn next. 

It wasn’t until I was accepted into an internship program that I saw the power of the PHP community. The office we were at was about 45 minutes north of Atlanta but we trekked down on a cold night for AtlantaPHP. It was there I met Chris Spruck, the start of one awesome friendship. As I kept returning to AtlantaPHP, I kept meeting more people. I had the honor of meeting Ben Ramsey (who I thought was Ben Edmunds.. a story for that wedding I suppose), Phil Sturgeon (who to this day we talk APIs and bicycles),  Davey Shafik, Cal Evans (who hasn’t he had a hand in guiding?), and more. These people would be instrumental one way or another. Through this small community, I tapped into the larger community with Twitter. I followed everyone even if I had no business following them. I was in awe, it was like a kid in the candy shop. Brilliant people talking about concepts I couldn’t understand. And through this community I got my first real job offer and led me to the next set of brilliant people, the Germans: Arne Blankets, Stefan Priebsch, and Sebastian Bergmann. It was through these guys I learned the power of PHP, the brilliance of OOP and I learned how to write a unit test. 

At this point you must be wondering where the hobbit thing comes to play so here it is. With this big kid job, I got a big kid conference ticket to Sunshine PHP. My first conference, and I was unashamedly star struck. Through Twitter and IRC, I had a loose idea of some people I’d see there from Cal to Joe Ferguson to Phil and a few others. But one person I met who would change my life was Jacques Woodcock. It was through Twitter that he saw something in me and offered me a job to work with him and Elizabeth Smith. While that only lasted 4 months, it opened more doors for me to speak at Nashville PHP (my future home), as well as Upstate PHP, Nomad PHP Lightning Talks, and more. But before most of that happened, I was called a hobbit in less than fun terms by Samantha Quinones. It shocked me and kind of popped my excitement. At the urging or some, a blog post later appeared detailing what was an incredible conference experience minus this one thing. Within an hour tweets and emails came in from people I didn’t even know offering support. People went out of their way to make me feel welcome. Even Samantha and I now joke about it. But it was that incident that really showed me the PHP community cares. The best part is now if I go to a new conference, I have a point of reference for people who don’t know me.

In my time in the community, we’ve had plenty of GoFundMe’s for elephpants and developers who need some help to buy Christmas gifts for their family. When one of us loses a job, we are quick to tweet out recommendations and words of support so that we are never without a job for long. This community has taken me across the country for conferences, helped me build meaningful relationships with people I would have never have had met if I wasn’t writing code. One of the best memories I have of the PHP community being incredible isn’t at a PHP conference, but it was going up to NYC for 24 hours to see Ben Edmunds and his fiancé for their wedding party. What started as a day of drinking and bantering almost turned into Phil and I getting into a fight with a hot dog cart vendor and finished with me sleeping on Ben’s couch. These are the friendships I could never replace and the memories I wouldn’t be able to create. These are the friendships Ive made because of the PHP community. 

I can’t possibly list all the friendships, acts of kindness and more that have happened during my short time in the PHP Community, but I can tell you this: I am forever grateful and indebted to the people in this community who took a chance on me and forever grateful for the amazing friendships I have today. These people are the ones who see my tweets about anxiety or depression and reach out, celebrate successes together and make life better. The ones who will offer me help when I need it, and ask for my help even though I never know what Im actually supposed to do.

As I look back at where I today, working on a team of people way more brilliant than I am (seriously this is a team of all stars… Jonathan H. Wage, Pablo Godel, Dan Revel, Jonathon Suggs, Cody Covey and so many more), I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for the community and the doors people opened for me. And because of those people opening those doors, it’s my turn and my mission to open as many doors as I can. If you aren’t attending a user group, join Nomad or start your own. Join us on Twitter and use the hashtag #phpc, introduce yourself and be prepared for something awesome. We can’t wait to meet you.
